Given that Tetris has already made an appearance
on almost every format under the sun - including
iPhone - you might expect an iOS re-release
to adorned with an abundance of new knobs
and bobs to sweeten the deal.
If the early App Store reviews are anything
to go by, however, it would appear a host
of new in-app purchases and a subscription-based
service weren't entirely what most Tetris
fans had in mind.
In terms of pre-launch hype and hysteria,
Tetris's new T-Club – available for £1.99
for a month, or £20.99 for an entire year
– has been the game's headline new feature.
In reality, it plays a small role.
Indeed, you'd be forgiven for not spotting
it at all.
Instead, what stands out it EA's new One Touch
mode.
One Touch does exactly what it sounds like,
swapping a control method that doesn't always
work well on touchscreens for a simplified
approach.
Essentially, when the shapes drop into play
from the top, Tetris gives you four suitable
options as to where they can be placed.
As in all forms of the game, the idea is to
form solid horizontal lines of squares to
be cleared from the board.
One Touch places a silhouette of the shape
in question in each of the four positions
available, giving you just a few seconds to
make your choice with a tap.
While there are times when the four slots
open to you don't cover every position in
which your shape could fit, in the majority
of cases all options are covered, and One
Touch leads to the kind of hectic contests
that have always been Tetris's signature.
It's a control method EA has also employed
in Galaxy – effectively the game's challenge
mode.
Here the placement options are the same, but
the aim is to drop the shapes into a predetermined
structure.
As such, things are far more black and white:
it's possible to pick the 'wrong' option,
breaking the game's intended flow and building
up the shapes rather than breaking them down.
Brevity is the main aim, with Tetris rating
your efficiency out of five at the end of
each stage.
The fewer moves you make, the higher you score
and the more Touch Coins you pick up – currency
that, whether earned through play or paid
for, enables you to unlock additional content.
This content currently appears to be missing,
however, and like the aforementioned T-Club
– which also claims to give access to exclusive
bonuses – its presence makes very little
difference to the bulk of play.
Indeed, T-Club's only noticeable bonus for
many will be that it enables you to rank up
more quickly – a perk that will only really
appeal to those desperate enough to top Tetris's
global league tables.
For the rest of us, what EA's refreshed Tetris
represents is just that – a solid but slight
refinement of the game that will make it more
digestible to newcomers and offer even old
skool players a fresh take on a favourite.
For those just looking for a slice of Tetris
as it was, EA has also wrapped up the standard
Marathon mode, bereft of any new control method
or revised take on the rules.
Don't be fooled by the new weapons in Tetris's
arsenal: it's the same old game, with some
touchscreen-friendly tweaks.